What does JCF Consists of?

Java Collections Framework is a group of types and algorithms that are developed to store elements and perform manipulations on the group of the objects.

1. Collection Interfaces - these are abstract data types that describes the type that may group multiple elements in a unit. As a software engineer we are going to use collections all the time to perform operations with the group of objects. For example, product list in our Web Application. This might be a collection of products in the language of Java, and we could perform operations on  the group of the products, for example search search products or filter them to keep only prouducts that has priced more than ten dollars or split all the group of products on the equal chance to show products page by page and a lot of other things.

2. Implementation of Collection Interfaces - even despite the fact that abstractions for collections looks the same, the implementation of this interface at different and fits for different goals. For example, some collections work the best for adding new elements since the end of the collection, and developers like that collections because of the constant time of retrieving element from them. Are the collections work better when you need to add elements in the middle or at the beginning of the collection? Other collectiosn work the best in the concurrent environment. All of these collections and the difference when to use each collection will be discussed in the later parts of the module.

3. Map Interfaces - are different from collections in one important thing. Map is a container that contains paris of key and value. For example you must store the name of the product category: doors and collections of all doors associated with it. You might have goods cateogry and collection of booths associated with that key. And in case you need to get all doors, you just make a request to the map button on the key to it to retrieve all doors. Maps are also considered a part of the collections framework because even if they don't have the same interface as collections, they have operations that allow us to view and interact with them the same way as with collections.

4. Implementation of Map Interfaces - different ways to implement the map interface and to understand when we will use each implementation of the map interface. 

5. Deprecated Collections - deprecated collections are also part of Java collections framework, despite the face that it is recommended not to use specific collections sometimes on the Java project, you still going to work with them? Because even nowadays there are a lot of old projects written on java that require support and maintenance. 

6. Synchronized Collections - There are also special set of collections that are developed to be used in the multithreaded environment. Imagine that you have collections of users and one administrator of the website removes the user from the collection and another administrator of the website is iterating over each user in the same collection to update the state of the total. 

7. Algorithms - JCF includes algorithms that are the methods that perform useful computations, such as searching and sorting on objects that implement collection interfaces that algorithms are said to be polymorhic. That is the same method can be used on many different implementation of the appropriate collection. 

8. Wrappers - JCF also contains a special wrapper that can turn your regular collection into non modifiable collection. It can also turn your regular collection into synchronized collection that you can use and will just write an environment. 

Why need 